{
  "data_id": "exchange_2541",
  "content": [
    "User: Ok, do you want to include any BIG IDEA summaries? Like Layer 0 and a recap of the others? Does that help? Also, regarding PURE and tagging, should we implement the new tagging protocol? Some of the feedback from Grok that updated it was that it might get clunky, but still thought overall it was very helpful. Not sure how to balance these objectives. Though not directly related to transition, it kind of is.\n\nGrok: Thoughts"
  ],
  "source": "grok",
  "timestamp": 1743978440.4240167,
  "data_type": "exchange",
  "metadata": {}
}